---
layout: post
title: Scope and Motivation of COBALT project
---

<div style="text-align: justify;">
COBALT suggests creating a Common Certification Model (CCM) for European industries to unify cybersecurity standards for ICT processes. This model will use existing standards and apply them across different industries, including Quantum computing and Industry 4.0, in a way that isn't limited to any specific sector.  

COBALT will explore disruptive technologies, focusing on AI and High-Performance Computing (HPC). It will analyze and certify Quantum Processing Oracles (which involve using quantum computers as part of other algorithms). Since quantum computing is crucial to Europe’s AI and computing leadership, securing this technology and its processes should be a top priority.  

The project will develop a cybersecurity certification framework that works across multiple industries. It will rely on Digital Twinning, decentralized processing, and trusted data exchange to make this certification possible. The project also plans to integrate International Data Spaces (IDS), which offer trusted ways to share data between parties, as a foundation for this certification framework.  

In the long term, COBALT aims to create a decentralized system that adapts to various conditions, allowing industries to share certification data without always relying on a centralized authority. This approach will help speed up the adoption of new technologies while ensuring the certification process is flexible, future-proof, and compatible with Web 3.0.  
</div>
